Add help about getting an authentication token (#4783)
EnMasseProject/enmasse: documentation/modules/proc-iot-management-token.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-iot-creating-device.adoc

[id='proc-iot-management-token-{context}']
= Getting an authentication token

In order to access the Device Management API, you will need a token for authenticating yourself
against the management API.

Access to devices of an IoT tenant is mapped by the device registry based on access to
the `IoTProject` resource. If an account has *read* access to the `IoTProject`, the this
account can also execute *read* operations on the device registry for this IoT tenant.

The token has to be presented to the API as a *bearer token*. This is done by adding
an HTTP header value: `Authorization: Bearer <token>`. For more information,
see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750[RFC 6750].

In the following examples, the variable `${TOKEN}` will be used as a placeholder.
Be sure replace this variable with the actual token.

> [id='proc-iot-management-token-from-user{context}']

Reviewer: Is this id required here because it does not seem to be a new module?

Author: I am not sure, I simply put the id to the headline, if one per file is enough, then I can remove the other ones.

Reviewer: I think only one id per module is required.

== From a user

If you want to use the token of the current {KubePlatform}, you can extract the
token by executing the following command:

.Prerequisites

* Be logged in to your {KubePlatform} instance with a user that supports tokens

.Procedure

. Extract the token for the current user
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
ifeval::["{cmdcli}" == "oc"]
oc whoami -t
endif::[]
ifeval::["{cmdcli}" == "kubectl"]
kubectl config view -o json| jq -r '.users[] as $users | ."current-context" as $ctx | .contexts[] | select (.name==$ctx).context.user as $user | $users | select (.name==$user).user.token'
endif::[]
----

NOTE: User tokens mostley have a limited lifetime. So it may be necessary

> to re-acquire the token after it has expired.

Author: I think so, yes.

> [id='proc-iot-management-token-from-service-account{context}']

Reviewer: Same comment as above: Is this id required here because it does not seem to be a new module?

> == From a service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Obtaining an authentication token for a service account

> In order to create a new service account and extract the token you need to perform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps to create a new service account and extract the token.
```

> the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.Prerequisites

> * Be logged in to your {KubePlatform} instance with permissions to create new service accounts, roles and role bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must be logged in to your {KubePlatform} instance with permissions to create new service accounts, roles and role bindings.
```

.Procedure

> . Create a new service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new service account:
```

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: my-device-manager-account # <1>
----

> <1> The name of the service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The name of the service account.
```

> . Create a new role, allowing access to the `IoTProject`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new role, allowing access to the `IoTProject`:
```

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: device-manager-role # <1>
rules: # <2>
- apiGroups: ["iot.enmasse.io"]
  resources: ["iotprojects"]
  verbs: ["create", "update", "get", "list", "delete"]
----

> <1> The name of the role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The name of the role.
```

<2> The access rules, which must grant CRUD access to the `IoTProject`.
+

> This example grants access to all `IoTProjects`s in a namespace. It is possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example grants access to all IoT projects in a namespace.
```

Author: `IoTProject` is actually the name of the resource in Kubernetes. Should I still replace it?

> to further narrow down access by using more specific rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further restrict access, use more specific rules.
```

> . Create a new role binding, assigning the role to the service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new role binding, assigning the role to the service account:
```

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: my-device-manager-account-role-binding
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: device-manager-role # <1>
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: my-device-manager-account # <2>
----

> <1> The name of the role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The name of the role.
```

> <2> The name of the service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The name of the service account.
```

> . Retrieve the token from the service account. Execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Retrieve the token from the service account:
```
